Hey everyone,

It took kind of a while, but I finally finished reading sections one and two of A Time for Interdisciplinarity. There was certainly a good amount of new information there. First and foremost was the defining of interdisciplinary, both from the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and The Young Academy. However, to be honest, I found both of these just extremely wordy as a way to cover all aspects of a true integration between two disciplines. While even I will admit that this sounds pretentious, I cannot say such a specific definition will ever carry more importance than a broad one. The beginning of the second section has a quote that reads, “The term nowadays functions as a kind of magic word in the academic landscape, without it being clear exactly what it means and to which concrete research practices it refers.” My takeaway is that the person who said this views interdisciplinarity as a buzzword; however, this has not been my experience with the word. I don’t know if it’s Northeastern’s offering of combined majors versus double majors but I feel as though people around me generally have a good grasp on the meaning of “the I-word”. 


I did however enjoy some aspects of what I read. First, I enjoyed the introduction and how it gave an overview of the topic and what could be expected reading forward. Specifically, I appreciated the paper starting with a scope of higher education and research, but making the apt comparison to healthcare. Such a comparison was interesting to think about and certainly makes sense. I also enjoyed the comic of the chemist conducting research; I thought that was funny. Furthermore, while I am not sure I will ever distinguish interdisciplinarity versus other forms of discipline transcendence, I was able to somewhat understand their subtle differences and have a moment of interest. Lastly, I appreciated the inclusion of a counterargument to the movement towards interdisciplinarity—that it would come at the cost of scientific strength and sharpness. I’d be interested in reading more about a response to such a claim.


On Northeastern’s course catalog webpage, computer science is described as a discipline that “draws its inspiration from mathematics, logic, science, and engineering.” While computer science certainly can be viewed as its own discipline, after reading this section I think it can also be described as being multidisciplinary. Multidisciplinarity can be defined as the “ joint … form of researching of an issue looked at from the point of view of several disciplines”. However, my computer science degree is general and without a specific concentration. The year after starting my computer science major here though, my college introduced several concentrations within a computer science degree, all of which I believe could be viewed as a discipline on its own. These include artificial intelligence, software, and human-centered computing. Computer science encompassing all of this and more is why I believe a classification of multidisciplinary fits the subject.


Moreover, computer science can fairly easily be classified as interdisciplinary with numerous other disciplines. Khoury College offers combined majors with over 25 partner disciplines. While I could talk briefly about these many overlaps, I will focus more on some of my own personal experiences. 


First, as a math minor, one of the most interdisciplinary classes I’ve taken so far is Mathematics of Data Models. This class “studies the methods and ideas in linear algebra, multivariable calculus, and statistics that are most relevant for the practicing computer scientist doing machine learning, modeling, or hypothesis testing with data.” The first half of the class mainly focused on linear algebra with the second half of the class focused on statistics. Each assignment was a number of math problems with one programming question. Typically given some code to start with, I had to fill in formulas I had learned or apply linear algebra concepts. Seeing such an overlap was certainly a unique experience. 


Second, I am in a data science class this semester and have had to look at a number of activities from a business perspective. While this specific overlap might technically fall under multidisciplinary, and not interdisciplinary, data science as a topic is seemingly becoming more and more popular for students interested in business. I find myself saying this a good amount these days, but I am actually quite happy and impressed with Northeastern’s new data science track. The first classes are DS 2000 and 2001, co-requisites and 2 credits each. DS 2000 is Programming with Data and serves as a great introduction to the Python programming language. DS 2001 is a Data Science Programming Practicum and can be taken with emphasis on various colleges’ offerings. From the course catalog, this class “applies data science principles in interdisciplinary contexts, with each section focusing on applications to a different discipline.” While it may seem like I’ve been sent by Khoury College to advertise these classes, I am simply a big advocate for Python programming and love seeing my friends interested in coding because of these classes. 


Computer science shares a space with so many disciplines, but math and data science are two that come with some personal experience. I hope you enjoyed!


Best,  
Shawn Robin 