Hi everyone,

I dread writing. This point was something I addressed in an earlier reflection, and unfortunately, nothing has changed. Last week was incredible, and I was extremely grateful for the week off from writing. However, as the course moves towards its end, I hope that I can fight through my unwillingness to simply write more. While I believe that each time I write, I do write a fair amount, I simply have not yet gone beyond the required amount of writing to warrant an A in this class according to the grading contract. To keep this from boiling down to "I haven’t done all of the extras yet, so I am at a B, but I plan to write more!" that Ellen included in her Week 8 letter, I'll take this chance to respond to some of the questions included.

> *What’s been most valuable to your learning, and how and why?*

I would say the aspect of this class most valuable to my learning has definitely been the peer interactions. Even though I only ever respond to two, reading them really is often fascinating and I think really drives home the point that this class is Interdisciplinary Advanced Writing. Reading about such a wide variety of disciplines is something that I wouldn't have a reason to do otherwise. Additionally, this aspect of the class makes me feel comfortable writing about my computer science education week after week because I know there are numerous posts focused elsewhere for those that have absolutely no interest in my writing topics. Plus, with the mindset that has allowed me to really enjoy others' writings about very different disciplines, I do not feel bad going on and on about my own.

> *How is the grading contract “working” for you? How does it make you think (or rethink) about the act of grading and how it ties to performance, and motivation, and learning?*

In theory, the grading contract sounds great, especially for a writing class. Instead of worrying about meticulous details of my writing such as repetition and formality, the weekly assignments instruct me to simply write. According to the grading contract, the biggest difference between a B and an A is going beyond what's required: extra peer commentary, responses to extra prompts, and more similarly themed bullet points. However, in practice, such a model might not be the best for me. It's hard to say though whether I'd feel like I'm doing better or worse if we were to receive grades per assignment. I find it interesting however that without any super specific feedback, I haven't found myself focused on any particular aspect of improving my writing week to week. It makes me curious as to whether I'm improved as a writer or if I am simply writing more. This does perhaps seemingly by design however, which would follow the fact that the best way to improve at just about art form is through practice.

> *How does this method of assessment connect to your discipline—academically and professionally?*

On top of this form of assessment being detrimental to those like me who very much do not enjoy writing, this form of grading is not what I prefer as it relates to my other academics and who I am. Academically, I have always been a fan of math over subjects like writing and a big part of that is that there is a concrete model for grading: you're either right or you're wrong. At its core, there is no room for subjectivity or creativity. As this relates to computer science, I much prefer assignments where I am given a testing suite such that if I write my program and it can pass all the given tests, I know for a fact I will receive a good grade. As for me personally, I am very competitive. I love winning and I hate losing. I believe such a mindset follows my preference for grading as any ambiguity is avoided. Just as competition yields clear-cut winners and losers, I enjoy having a clear cut grade made up of individual assignments and assessments. While this isn't to say I've enjoyed the grading of all my CS and math classes, I'm not sure I love the grading contract of this class either.


With all that being said, I do very much intend on writing more as we close out the second half of this class and would very much love to finish this class with an A.

Shawn